So we welcome you to the graduation
of the 141st class of Gilead.
And as a reminder,
it’s requested that no flash cameras
be used during the program.
Any picture taken without flash
must be taken from your seat location.
No recordings of any kind are permitted.
Cellular telephones, electronic tablets,
or similar devices should not be used
to transmit any part of the program.
Program notes,
whether hard copy or electronic,
should not be distributed to others.
Now to begin our program,
we’ll open and sing song number 107,
“Come to Jehovah’s Mountain.”
And then, Brother Troy Snyder, a member
of the United States Branch Committee,
will offer our opening prayer.
So we invite you to stand.
It’s song 107.
So the special day has finally arrived.
And we know your family and close friends
are pleased to be here
to share this special occasion.
Of course, all the rest are enjoying
the moment with you
because it’s a spiritual program.
And, of course, now we broadcast it later.
And the whole brotherhood,
for the most part,
is able to benefit
from this special activity
that for many years
was only at Bethel itself.
Now,
your class enjoyed
the spring here at Patterson
and enjoyed the summer at Patterson
—beautiful surroundings.
And Jehovah sure did bless
his earthly part of his organization
to have such a place to be educated.
However, now you’ll be leaving
for your assignments,
and we’re going to be entering
into the fall season.
So . . .
Most years that can be spectacular
in upstate New York.
Of course, New England is renowned
for the beauty of the leaves changing
—these radiant colors.
It’s just—
Jehovah just amazes us
with what can happen each fall season.
And it put me in mind
(because we’re soon to experience it,
and hopefully it’ll be
a good season this year)
of a picture I had in the past,
and I appreciated it.
It was a beautiful picture of a lake
with trees surrounding the lake,
very nice,
and it was a fall scene.
And so all of these beautiful trees,
the radiant colors around the water
—it just kind of makes you think about
the site there at Warwick
and what’s coming this fall.
And the reason I bring it up
is because
the caption for the picture was,
“Change—The only thing
permanent is change.”
Is that true?
I see some heads going like that.
No, not all the time.
But we can understand why imperfect humans
would come to that conclusion.
But Jehovah is permanently the true God.
Thankfully that will never change!
And there are other things
that don’t change.
Integrity-keepers that are
already experiencing Jehovah’s favor
—those holy angels—
they didn’t change, see.
But I bring it up because
we’ve entered such a time
where all these changes are going on,
and your class has been held
during some historic changes
—can’t minimize that.
It’s been quite phenomenal.
Now, when you think about
the class you’re in
and the historic things
that are going on,
yours is the last class to be held
when headquarters was in Brooklyn.
Yep.
Had you thought about that?
Last one.
Now, many of us have
already moved to Warwick.
So the headquarters staff
that’ll be living there
is just moving in on it.
We’ve been moving for months
—all these three different sites—
and there’s more moving to come.
And we rejoice that it worked out
(as the Construction Project Committee
and the thousands that supported them,
brothers and sisters),
things speeded up,
and we got in there
or are going in there a few months early.
So that’s a rejoicing moment.
Tours, as was mentioned
in the broadcast this September,
don’t begin till next year,
but Jehovah was kind to you
and brought you over this week
to see some of Warwick.
And I see your big smiles.
You enjoyed that,
even though there are things
you might want
to come back in the future
to see when the tours
really do begin to function.
So we know you’re enjoying
the experience here of being educated.
But if you think about it,
what does this tell us about Jehovah?
With moving—
And I’ve been telling folks for some months,
“Years back we made the statement that
“(and this was according to
some studies that were done)
“the death of a loved one,
divorce, and moving
—three top stressors in life!”
Ugh! And those that are moving
can tell you, “Oh yeah!”
But it’s right up there
with the death of a loved one and divorce.
So that’s stress!
So you might wonder, well,
why, in the middle of all of this
and these changes
we knew were going to happen,
we still had the class of Gilead.
You still were invited.
Why did we not say,
“Well, let’s, you know, let’s be reasonable
and hold off and have one
after this stressful period is over?”
The U.S. Branch Committee gives
such beautiful support
to headquarters as well.
Let’s . . .
Unh-unh.
And it just shows you
Jehovah directs this organization, period!
He’s governing it,
and he just loves you
—because this is addressed,
these comments, primarily to you—
and wants you educated.
And it’s just his warm embrace
for you that you’re invited.
And you did enjoy it.
You had all the deep study and all of that,
but all that was going on around you,
I think you’d agree,
didn’t affect how you
were instructed and what was done.
So it tells us that Jehovah—
And you can see it,
especially in recent years
—so much emphasis
on education.
And I am reminded
of what Elihu said here,
and a beautiful thought here
in Job chapter 36,
Job chapter 36.
And we’re going to see where
he makes this statement
in verse 22:
“Look!
God is exalted in his power.”
And then notice:
“What instructor is like him?”
Well, you’re not supposed to try
to come up with an answer.
That’s a question that answers itself.
“What instructor is like him?”
There is none
—no instructor like Jehovah God.
Unh-unh.
No.
In fact, when we think about
our heavenly Father,
the Grand Instructor,
we’re reminded
of Romans here, chapter 11.
So if you would,
please find Romans chapter 11.
And this reveals to us
why the only one
that never needed
education or instruction
is our heavenly Father,
Jehovah God.
And Jesus
would tell you that as well.
He was instructed
by his Father personally,
“firstborn of all creation.”
And when you think about
the warm embrace and his love for you here—
Because I know you’re closer to Jehovah
than when you first arrived
—has to happen with this course,
with the fine instructors we have.
But Romans 11:33, 34:
“O the depth of God’s riches
and wisdom and knowledge!
“How unsearchable his judgments are
“and beyond tracing out his ways are!
“For ‘who has come
to know Jehovah’s mind,
or who has become his adviser?’”
So you have to think about that
and let that sink in:
The riches of his wisdom and knowledge
—it’s just unfathomable!
You just have to let that sink in
—‘the depth of God’s riches,
wisdom, and knowledge!’
There’s no way to search out his judgments
—can’t trace out his ways.
That’s why we adore
and worship Jehovah God.
And you can’t know his mind
(none of us can)
until he reveals it.
That’s why sometimes
you’ll hear brothers and sisters
(sincerely so, I’m sure)
kind of speculating,
and I go:
‘Um-huh, OK.
‘Somebody thinks
they know Jehovah’s mind
beyond what
He gave us here. OK.’
But we don’t follow creatures;
we follow Jehovah God
because he’s our Grand Instructor.
And you’re a lot closer to him,
assuring yourself
of being taught by him
when you get into your assignment
as well as on into eternity.
Now, there are some fine thoughts
prepared for you
from brothers to follow.
I thought I’d just give you
a brief preview
—just to get you to focus.
And the rest in attendance
will be able to do that.
But this is for your benefit.
You’re going find out
about a cloud.
OK, that’s all I’m telling you.
You’re going to find out
about an enemy,
and it’s not Satan
in this particular theme.
You’re going to find out
about testing Jehovah out.
And then,
we always enjoy your experiences.
So we look forward to that,
and I know the pressure is on you.
You look forward to being finished
and successfully so.
And then,
nice interviews with some of you
about how are you going
to use your gift.
And then, the principal talk
about making good use of your time.
So it’s some nice thoughts,
and we look forward
to the presentations by these brothers.
First, we have Brother Ralph Walls,
who is a helper
to the Personnel Committee
and a member
of the United States Branch Committee.
And Brother Walls has the theme
“See—the Cloud!”
First of all, I’d like to say:
On behalf
of the United States Branch Committee,
we really do rejoice with you.
And it’s been a real pleasure
to get to know some of you
—hopefully, most of you.
But your example of love
and appreciation for Jehovah
and the earthly part of his organization
is really motivating.
One couple in this class experienced
what was a very emotional time
just after learning of their invitation.
The sister’s father fell ill,
and then he died.
It was a real challenge for them,
but they accepted
the invitation to come to Gilead.
A brother was special pioneering
in his branch territory,
and then he was invited
to the branch temporarily.
Another change came:
He was reassigned as a special pioneer.
And then there were adjustments
for some of the special pioneers
to regular pioneer,
and he thought,
‘Well, I’ll go back to regular pioneering.’
He was invited to Gilead,
but his father died.
He came; he’s here.
We could go on with other examples.
Now, what does
this have to do with the cloud?
Well, let’s see.
Please turn with me
to Numbers chapter 9.
And we’ll read together
beginning in verse 17,
Numbers 9:17:
“Whenever the cloud
lifted from the tent,
“the Israelites would promptly depart,
“and in the place
where the cloud would remain,
“there is where
the Israelites would encamp.
“At the order of Jehovah
the Israelites would depart,
“and at the order of Jehovah
they would encamp.
“As long as the cloud
remained over the tabernacle,
“they would remain encamped.
“When the cloud would stay over
the tabernacle for many days,
“the Israelites would obey
Jehovah and not depart.
“Sometimes the cloud would remain
for a few days over the tabernacle.
“At the order of Jehovah
they would remain encamped,
“and at the order of Jehovah
they would depart.
“Sometimes the cloud would remain
only from evening until morning,
“and when the cloud lifted in the morning,
they would depart.
“Whether it was day or night
“when the cloud lifted,
they would depart.
“Whether it was two days,
a month, or longer,
“as long as the cloud
stayed over the tabernacle,
“the Israelites remained encamped
and would not depart.
“But when it lifted,
they would depart.
“At the order of Jehovah
they would encamp,
“and at the order of Jehovah
they would depart.
“They kept their obligation to Jehovah
at the order of Jehovah through Moses.”
Interesting.
That phrase “at the order of Jehovah”
appears seven times.
You see,
Jehovah was in total control.
When that cloud moved,
the nation moved.
And did you notice
how they would do so?
“Promptly.”
Now, whether it was ‘a few days,
a month, or longer,’
if the commandment was to leave
in the middle of the night
or during the morning or day,
it made no difference.
They would move.
Why?
They saw the cloud.
Now imagine a camp
of about three million people.
The watchmen have seen
the fiery cloud at night.
It’s lifted up
from the tabernacle,
and it’s pointing to the north.
Suddenly, after a year
of camping in one spot,
the shrill notes of a silver trumpet
cleave the air.
And after a brief interval
in which the camp waits to see
if there would be fluctuating blasts,
which signaled the breaking up
of the camp, they move.
Now, that means
the whole camp of Israel
changed its position promptly.
Three million people
—mothers shaking
their children out of sleep;
daughters
packing up belongings;
sons rounding up
the family livestock;
fathers putting all
of the items on the animals.
And in a little time,
the whole camp would be
on the march to who knows where.
They certainly didn’t
—until they made
their next encampment.
They saw the cloud,
and they knew
that it was Jehovah
who was directing them.
Now, you folks are examples
of those who “see the cloud.”
You know that Jehovah
—not the imperfect men
that he’s using—
is in total control.
And we humans find it
generally difficult to change,
as you heard
in our dear Brother Morris’ comments.
But Jehovah’s people,
from the days of Abraham
down to our day,
have seen that we’ve had to be
humble, flexible, and obedient.
We must maintain spiritual vision.
We have to “see the cloud.”
Psalm 78:14 reminds us
that it was Jehovah
who used that cloud.
There was a 39-year-old sister
(single sister)
serving at Bethel for eight years,
and she made herself available
for wherever she could best serve.
Well, she was asked to attend SKE,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
And she received an assignment
that was shocking to her:
to a country
where the work is restricted
—single sister.
She said this,
“I am extremely grateful to Jehovah
for this undeserved blessing
and also for the trust and support
that I’ve been given.”
A married couple who served together
at Bethel for 25 years
—he served before that totaling 32 years—
they were recently assigned
as special pioneers
after all those years at Bethel.
You know what they said?
I’ll quote them:
“We have feelings,
of course.
“Why would anyone
want to leave Bethel?
“It’s easy to forget
that when we came to Bethel,
“we had a preference
but we agreed to be assigned anywhere.
“Lovingly,
Jehovah watches how we display
submission and loyalty
to his organization.”
Now, in the United States branch territory,
there’s an ongoing effort
to better utilize Kingdom Halls,
and this has resulted
in many publishers
being assigned to different congregations
—more to come.
Now, commenting on the general benefits,
here’s what one circuit overseer said:
“This lets the friends know
how to rely on Jehovah.
“This woke a lot of people up.
“Learn obedience, submissiveness,
“and how to follow direction.
“The elders
and ministerial servants
did an excellent job
at demonstrating this.
“The friends will even more learn
to a greater degree
as they assimilate
into their new congregations.”
Interesting.
Think about it.
During the wilderness trek,
Jehovah might have moved the cloud
in the middle of the night,
and their locations
may not have seemed logical
from a human standpoint.
Why would Jehovah do such a thing?
We don’t know.
Maybe he could see the movement
of enemy camps toward Israel.
Whatever the case, it was vital
that they would have responded promptly.
All of us today need to “see the cloud”
as we get closer to the great tribulation.
The time is now
when we have to obey and not ask,
“Why did they make that decision?”
As one traveling overseer said,
“Don’t put a question mark
where Jehovah puts a period.”
You dear students
have already shown prompt response
to direction
that Jehovah’s organization has provided.
Please do it more fully.
And to the extent that you do,
Jehovah will continue to bless you.
Don’t see the men
that Jehovah is using
—see the cloud.
And may all of us do the same.
Thank you very much,
Brother Walls.
That was
very faith strengthening.
And I already have
to ask for forgiveness.
I forgot to mention
my good friend’s theme
(but he forgave me in the back)
in the preview.
Intriguing theme
from Brother Samuel Herd,
a member of the Governing Body,
“Let the Memories Sustain You.”
Earlier, when Brother Morris
didn’t introduce my talk,
I started to go home.
And then I remembered
he’s imperfect.
Thank God for the gift of memory!
If we couldn’t recall the who, the what,
the where of our everyday lives,
our lives would be unmanageable.
We have a short-term memory.
We have a long-term
(episodic memory, or semantic) memory.
Sometimes we look at our picture album
on a rainy afternoon,
and what we see ignites memories.
The school is over,
but your memory bank
is very much alive.
Now, whether we like it or not,
sometimes different memories
of past events
pop into our heads
for no apparent reason.
Smells ring bells.
A sister spoke to me when we were
in an elevator, and she said,
“You make me think
of my father, my dad.”
I thought: ‘It couldn’t be my looks
since she’s white and I am black.
It couldn’t be my voice
because I haven’t said anything yet.’
I found out it was
the Old Spice cologne that I had on.
Smells ring bells.
One happy thought can spark
an unending chain of things
you experienced in school.
It’s like being in school
all over again.
Now, one or two of us may have heard
of Solomon Shereshevsky.
He was born in Russia about 1886.
He had a memory so perfect
that he could recall
every minute of his life
—and that in graphic detail.
His talent for remembering
was discovered
when he was
just a young lad of 19 years.
Now, correct me if I’m wrong;
I don’t think there is a solitary soul
in this class, male or female,
with the recall ability
of Solomon Shereshevsky.
Nevertheless,
you do have memories,
and these memories
will sustain you in the days ahead
as you work for Jehovah in his service.
Now, you’re not going
to remember everything
you’ve seen and heard in class
during the last five months.
Why?
There’s just no need.
One authority by the name
of Ashish Ranpura
made this comment,
see what you think about it:
“The human brain
is not good at remembering
“long lists of unrelated numbers,
“dozens of nonsense words,
or lengthy grocery lists.”
For these tasks,
little more is required
than pen and paper.
Now, some in the medical profession
have said:
“We all carry in our personal memory banks
pictures and memories
of everything we have seen,
done, and heard since birth.”
Others think that some things
are so ordinary, so non-essential,
that they are not locked
in our memory banks
but are cast off.
What do you think,
you students?
Think what you want.
There is no way for us to know.
Not now,
maybe later.
Here’s something you
no doubt will agree with:
Jehovah can remember
whatever he chooses to remember,
and he can forget
whatever he wants to forget.
Now there’s a mind
that tops Solomon Shereshevsky.
Jehovah’s memory,
or mind, is unfathomable!
And here’s an interesting comment
from the Bible.
It’s found here
at 1 Corinthians 2:16.
It says: “For ‘who has come
to know the mind of Jehovah,
“so that he may instruct him?’
But we do have the mind of Christ.”
No, we can’t know
in detail God’s mind.
He permits us to know
just a little bit of it,
and we’re happy for that.
But here’s
an interesting thought too:
He values us
so much that he remembers
every detail
of our faithful service.
Our genetic code
—he remembers that.
And all our years
of memories and experiences
—God can recall.
Should you die,
he will restore all this back
in your new brain
and body that he gives you.
How do we know that?
Well, Malachi 3:16
makes a comment.
This is what it says:
“At that time those who
feared Jehovah spoke with one another,
“each one with his companion,
“and Jehovah
kept paying attention and listening.
“And,” now note, “a book of remembrance
“was written before him
for those fearing Jehovah
and for those
meditating on his name.”
God’s thoughts are
so much higher than ours.
In the Bible book of Isaiah
as stated in the 55th chapter:
“‘For my thoughts are not your thoughts,
“and your ways are not my ways,’
declares Jehovah.
“‘For as the heavens
are higher than the earth,
“‘so my ways are
higher than your ways
and my thoughts
than your thoughts.’”
So we can never fully understand
all of Jehovah’s thoughts.
He gives us the ability,
with the help of the holy spirit,
to recall the thoughts
we need to apply in our lives
in order to gain his pleasure.
So we need to do what?
We need to pray for holy spirit!
Now, each of our brothers
who will speak to you today
and those who have already
had something to say
prayed for holy spirit
before they ever stepped out here.
I prayed at length
back there for holy spirit
so that what comes out of my mouth
will build you up and not tear you down,
will honor Jehovah and please him
and be a source of encouragement
to all of my brothers and sisters
who are able to hear
what I have to say.
So all of our brothers pray
to that degree
before they step out
on this stage before an audience
of your caliber, especially.
We want to make sure
that what is said will be good for you.
So God gives us the ability
to understand a few things
because of holy spirit.
So we say to you,
“Pray, please, for holy spirit.”
The spirit
will refresh your memories
and stimulate
your mental powers.
It’s the holy spirit
that will help you remember
what you need to remember
when you need
to remember something.
Now, note
this promise of Jesus
at John 14:25, 26.
That’s John 14:25, 26:
“I have spoken these things to you
while I am still with you.
“But the helper,
the holy spirit,
“which the Father
will send in my name,
“that one
will teach you all things
and bring back to your minds
all the things I told you.”
In the weeks ahead,
let the warm,
beautiful memories
of Gilead sustain you,
and thank Jehovah for them!
They gave me 9:00 minutes.
I used 8:42.
I just had to delete about four things
I was considering saying.
But, anyway, the translators
will have fun with the Old Spice.
It brought back
memories for me too.
I used to love Old Spice,
by the way.
Used it a long time and then—
So Brother James Cauthon,
one of the instructors
with Theocratic Schools,
has the theme
“Ego Is Your Enemy.”
There are a number of definitions
for the expression “ego.”
But for our brief discussion
this morning,
we want to focus
on the definition of “ego”
as it’s used in “egotist”:
An unhealthy belief  in our own importance;
the notion of ourselves
that distorts reality.
Now, we’re not picking
that subject
because we’ve noticed
any particular problem
and, believe me,
it’s just been the opposite.
But there is a tendency,
or leaning,
that we have
as imperfect people
to become just a little bit
too self-assured
—maybe a little bit
too full of ourselves.
And that’s why the apostle Paul,
when he was talking about
putting on the new personality,
in Romans chapter 12
he gave this reminder in verse 3.
He said: “For through
the undeserved kindness given to me,
“I tell everyone there among you
“not to think more of himself
than it is necessary to think,
but to think so as
to have a sound mind.”
Now, without going further,
we can see the balance.
If we have
the right view of ourselves,
well, we have “a sound mind.”
But as soon as we have
an unbalanced view,
then we have an unsound mind.
We have a tendency
to become unbalanced.
But the culture we live in today
also fans the flames of ego.
For example,
it’s never been easier
than today to talk oneself up,
to puff oneself up,
to brag oneself up
to thousands, if not millions,
of so-called followers
on social media.
But humility
will help us to see
that perhaps others
are not quite as interested
in our accomplishments
as we are.
So self-worth
is realizing
that you have value;
self-importance
is wanting everyone else
to know it.
Open your Bibles,
if you would,
to 1 Corinthians chapter 8.
First Corinthians chapter 8,
and we want to give
just four brief reminders.
First Corinthians 8:1,
it says:
“Knowledge puffs up,
but love builds up.”
It’s not enough to be
a student at the beginning.
It’s a position
that you must assume for life.
It’s impossible to learn
what one thinks he already knows.
The second we tell ourself
that we have graduated,
learning grinds to a halt.
A good mind
is certainly a fine asset,
and still it could become a weakness
if overconfidence
causes us to develop
an inflated opinion of ourselves.
Now,
you haven’t had that happen,
and likely it won’t happen.
But after you graduate
as a Gilead graduate,
you will find that people
will complement you;
perhaps they will even
flatter you excessively.
And when that happens,
try to remember this:
A smart man believes only half
of what people say about him.
A wise man knows
which half to believe.
So continue to let the Word of God
and the spirit of God
make you more like
the Son of God.
Proverbs 10:14:
“Those who are wise
treasure up knowledge.”
But don’t let the knowledge
go to your head
—just to your head;
let it go to your heart.
Second area,
turn to Matthew chapter 20,
and you can leave your Bible
open here if you’d like.
Matthew 20:28,
and this goes right to the heart
of your Gilead assignment, all right.
Jesus said this,
he said:
“Just as the Son of man came,
not to be ministered to,
but to minister.”
And so Jesus
measured greatness
in terms of service,
not status.
He willingly took up menial tasks
that everyone else tried to avoid.
He would wash feet.
He would take care of children.
Jesus, the Bible says,
“emptied himself.”
But you know what?
You can’t empty yourself
if you’re full of yourself.
Now, imagine
that for every person you met,
you found
some way to help them
—a way
that entirely benefited them
and left you entirely
out of the picture.
The cumulative effect
that this would have on the brotherhood
over a period of time
would be profound,
and it’s not an original idea.
You see,
Jehovah God and Jesus Christ
look for opportunities
to do for others.
And it’s not about
making someone look good
—it’s about providing the support
so that others can be good.
Strive to be selfless,
not selfish.
Philippians 2:3 says:
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
but with humility
consider others superior to you.”
Now back to Matthew,
this time chapter 20
beginning in verse 25.
This is the third area.
Jesus, talking to his disciples, said:
“You know that the rulers
of the nations lord it over them
“and the great men
wield authority over them.
“This must not be
the way among you;
“but whoever wants to become
great among you must be your minister,
and whoever wants to be
first among you must be your slave.”
Now,
you’re going to leave here.
Some of you are going
to be put in positions of oversight.
But all of you,
brothers and sisters,
are expected to work as a team.
So try to remember these things:
Having authority is not necessarily
the same as being an authority.
Having the right is not necessarily
the same as being right.
Impressing people is different
from being truly impressive.
And learn the difference
between prominence
and significance.
See, some of the most significant people
in our organization
are the ones
that have almost no prominence.
They’re the ones
that are showing integrity;
standing firm for the Kingdom;
setting an example in the ministry;
and making sacrifices
that maybe only Jehovah, Jesus,
and the holy angels know.
They’re significant.
So don’t get caught up
into the trap
of jockeying for position
or prominence in the organization.
Because if you do,
that ego that is developing
will cause you to become a menace
to the brothers and sisters
that have to work
under your direction.
The Watchtower put it like this,
it said:
‘Ego always beclouds the issue
and obscures the vision.’
And remember this too:
A team player does not obsess
about his own image;
he doesn’t treat people with contempt,
doesn’t need star treatment,
doesn’t fight, doesn’t lord it over,
isn’t condescending,
and doesn’t marvel
at his own awesomeness.
Colossians 3:23:
‘Whatever you are doing,
work at it whole-souled
for Jehovah, and not to men.’
And, finally,
one last point.
And this is found
at 1 Corinthians 10:12.
We’re not going to look it up
because there’s simply not time.
But it says this, it says:
“Let him that thinks he is standing
beware that he does not fall.”
Humble people are meek;
they’re not weak.
Spiritual maturity
is becoming like Jesus
in the way
we think, feel, and act.
But self-deception is easy.
Beware of “the disease of me.”
Even the best qualities
will have a short shelf life
if the subscription
is not renewed.
It’s not enough
to do the right thing;
you must do the right thing
for the right reason.
James 4:10 says:
“Humble yourselves
in the eyes of Jehovah,
and he will exalt you.”
So in conclusion,
it’s admirable to reach out
in Jehovah’s organization,
to take on additional responsibilities,
to make sacrifices.
But it is no less impressive
an accomplishment
to become a better person,
happier, balanced,
content, humble, and selfless.
But to do so,
we must remember:
Ego is your enemy!
Thank you very much,
Brother Cauthon.
We appreciated that.
Next,
Brother William Malenfant,
who’s a helper
to the Teaching Committee,
has the theme
“Test Jehovah Out and Be Tested!”
You students
of the 141st class of Gilead
have been putting Jehovah
to the test for years.
It sounds scary,
but you’ve been doing it
in a good way,
a way that honors
Jehovah God.
On the other hand,
the Israelites
often tested Jehovah in a bad way.
Psalm 106:14 declares:
“They gave way to their selfish desires
in the wilderness;
they tested God in the desert.”
Yes, they tested Jehovah
by their lack of faith
and by their disobedience to what they
had agreed to do in the Law covenant.
And it was all to their own detriment.
And Jesus commented on this point
of not testing Jehovah God
when he replied
to Satan at Matthew 4:7.
You recall the words:
“You must not put
Jehovah your God to the test.”
Jesus refused to do anything
that would put his life in jeopardy
or do something reckless
just to please
a challenge from the Devil.
That would be a wrong way
to put Jehovah God to the test.
However, as students of this class,
you know about Malachi.
And you know
that there is an invitation
in the Scriptures
to test Jehovah out.
Let’s look up
the scripture together,
Malachi 3:10.
It had to do
with the Israelites and tithing,
obeying Jehovah’s command.
Malachi 3:10 says:
“‘Bring the entire tithe
into the storehouse,
“‘so that there may be
food in my house;
“‘and test me out, please,
in this regard,’
“Jehovah of armies says,
“‘to see whether
I will not open to you
“‘the floodgates of the heavens
“‘and pour out on you a blessing
until there is nothing lacking.’”
That’s quite a statement.
Jehovah said:
“Test me out, please, in this regard”
—in regard to being obedient,
to accept Jehovah’s invitation,
to trust Jehovah
and his promise to bless them,
in regard to not being
tightfisted and greedy.
After all,
everything the Israelites had
came from Jehovah.
They were merely asked
to give back a small portion
of the things that Jehovah God
had provided for them.
You know, there was
no penalty for not tithing.
The arrangement actually,
when you study it,
had a lot to do
with the heart condition of the people
and their appreciation
for all of the good things
that Jehovah did for them.
Obedience would result
in blessings
—an abundance of good things,
bumper crops,
no one in the land
would be lacking.
Jehovah’s blessing would be on them
and all of their undertakings.
But think about the word picture
that Malachi paints
in the last part of verse 10.
The power of that word picture
—the floodgates
of the heavens being opened
and pouring out blessings.
What comes to your mind
when you hear that expression,
“the floodgates
of the heavens being opened”?
For me, Genesis 7:11.
And it says:
“In the 600th year of Noah’s life,
“in the second month,
on the 17th day of the month,
“on that day all the springs
of the vast watery deep burst open
and the floodgates
of the heavens were opened.”
Just imagine,
the entire planet being submerged
in blessings from Jehovah.
No one anywhere in want or in need.
That’s the promise from Jehovah.
It’s coming
—and soon!
The invitation
to test Jehovah out as set forth
in Malachi 3:10 was given
to the Israelites, as we know.
It was not given to Christians,
as far as tithing is concerned.
But there is a principle
connected to tithing
that has special meaning
for us today.
Consider this quote about testing God.
It says: “You can humbly
test him in a proper sense.
“How?
He promised a blessing.”
Well, such as in Malachi 3:10:
‘Bring the whole tithe in,
and I will bless you abundantly.’
For us,
it could be Matthew 6:33:
‘Seek first the Kingdom
and all these other things
will be added to you.’
But the quote goes on:
“When you obey him,
“you make a test of God,
as if asking,
“‘Will he bless me?’
“In response, he puts himself
under obligation to do so,
“keeping his promise.
“Thus, God’s allowing you to ‘test him out’
“underscores your conviction
that he will bless you abundantly.”
And that’s taken from the book
Live With Jehovah’s Day in Mind,
on page 183.
The fact is that when we put Jehovah
to the test regarding his promises,
we are also putting our own faith
in his promises to the test.
This has been
—and still is—
your experience.
By seeking first the Kingdom,
you Gilead students,
haven’t you been blessed abundantly?
Materially
—you have what you need.
Spiritually
—a superabundance of blessings
have been poured out on you.
Have you not received
blessings beyond measure
in acquaintances,
fellowship, happiness and joy
—the people now
that you’re close to in your class
and also here at Patterson?
You know what life is all about.
You know what the purpose of life is
—why we’re here.
To serve God, to know Jehovah,
and to learn about our great Creator
and the way we should worship him.
And, what—
The blessings that we’re receiving
—all of the good things we have—
are just a foretaste of things to come,
things in the near future.
And, I might add,
you students are not
the only ones
who are testing Jehovah out.
I found this quote interesting
from The Watchtower about another group.
The Watchtower stated:
“Most of those who have assisted
with the construction work in New York
“could have found reasons
not to volunteer.
“However,
they put Jehovah to the test
—just as he invites all of us to do.”
And, have they not received
rich blessings from Jehovah in return?
Just ask them.
They’ll tell you.
And the last part, I like very much.
And, do we not love them
for their faith?
Absolutely!
Another group
—the anointed—
test Jehovah,
and they are being tested.
Revelation 2:10:
“Prove yourself faithful even to death”
—the test, but the reward—
“and I will give you the crown of life.”
Isn’t that remarkable
—the promises that God makes?
That principle applies to all of us.
When we make our dedication
and are baptized,
we vow to serve Jehovah God forever.
You know that; we know that.
But there is an interesting point
connected to that.
There is more involved
than just our person.
Consider this comment
from The Watchtower:
“From that time on,”
dedication and baptism,
“everything we have belongs to Jehovah.”
Now some may separate
their person from their possessions,
not realizing that, really,
when you give yourself to God,
it’s all you are and all that you have.
And yet, here is where the tithe,
or the principle of the tithe, comes in.
“Still,” and this is part of that quote
from The Watchtower of 2007,
December 15:
“Still, he allows us to choose
“a portion of what we have
“—a symbolic tithe—
“to use in his service.
It is whatever our circumstances allow,”
and this second part is touching,
“and our heart impels us to use.”
Isn’t that wonderful on Jehovah’s part?
He doesn’t set forth a specific requirement.
He allows us to display
our heartfelt appreciation for him
and for all the good things
that he does for us.
The heart is truly involved.
We test Jehovah God out
by doing what Proverbs 23:26 says:
“My son,
do give your heart to me,
and may your eyes
take pleasure in my ways.”
We give Jehovah God our heart,
and we give him everything else
that we have as the needs arise.
What a wonderful opportunity we have!
It gives us this opportunity of showing
how much we appreciate our great God
and how much we trust him.
And this interesting statement was made:
“To fail to give Jehovah our best
is to deprive ourselves of his blessing[s].”
Isn’t that true?
You brothers and sisters
of the 141st class of Gilead,
you are not depriving
yourselves of anything.
You have the spiritual blessings,
and you have what you need materially
—no doubt about it.
And as you
continue testing Jehovah out
by responding to his promises,
the quality of your faith
will continue
to be tested and refined.
And so,
keep on testing Jehovah out;
keep on doing
the best you can to obey him,
to comply,
to show your faith in his promises.
And then you will also be tested
to your eternal joy and happiness!
Thank you, Brother Malenfant,
for that fine counsel.
We invite you all to stand now.
We’ll sing song number 43,
“Stay Awake, Stand Firm, Grow Mighty,”
song number 43.